web/README.md, before:

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app).

## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `pages/index.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

[API routes](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/introduction) can be accessed on [http://localhost:3000/api/hello](http://localhost:3000/api/hello). This endpoint can be edited in `pages/api/hello.ts`.

The `pages/api` directory is mapped to `/api/*`. Files in this directory are treated as [API routes](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/introduction) instead of React pages.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/deployment) for more details.

Commit message:

feat: Initialize web next12, typescript, graphql

web/README.md, after:

# TypeScript and GraphQL Example

One of the strengths of GraphQL is [enforcing data types on runtime](https://graphql.github.io/graphql-spec/June2018/#sec-Value-Completion). Further, TypeScript and [GraphQL Code Generator](https://graphql-code-generator.com/) (graphql-codegen) make it safer by typing data statically, so you can write truly type-protected code with rich IDE assists.

This template extends [Apollo Server and Client Example](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/api-routes-apollo-server-and-client#readme) by rewriting in TypeScript and integrating [graphql-let](https://github.com/piglovesyou/graphql-let#readme), which runs [TypeScript React Apollo](https://graphql-code-generator.com/docs/plugins/typescript-react-apollo) in [graphql-codegen](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator#readme) under the hood. It enhances the typed GraphQL use as below:

```tsx
import { useNewsQuery } from './news.graphql'

const News = () => {
	// Typed already️⚡️
	const { data: { news } } = useNewsQuery()

	return <div>{news.map(...)}</div>
}
```

By default `**/*.graphqls` is recognized as GraphQL schema and `**/*.graphql` as GraphQL documents. If you prefer the other extensions, make sure the settings of the webpack loader in `next.config.js` and `.graphql-let.yml` are consistent.

## Preview

Preview the example live on [StackBlitz](http://stackblitz.com/):

[![Open in StackBlitz](https://developer.stackblitz.com/img/open_in_stackblitz.svg)](https://stackblitz.com/github/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/with-typescript-graphql)

## Deploy your own

Deploy the example using [Vercel](https://vercel.com?utm_source=github&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=next-example):

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/git/external?repository-url=https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/with-typescript-graphql&project-name=with-typescript-graphql&repository-name=with-typescript-graphql)

## How to use

Execute [`create-next-app`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app) with [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/init) or [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/cli/create/) to bootstrap the example:

```bash
npx create-next-app --example with-typescript-graphql with-typescript-graphql-app
# or
yarn create next-app --example with-typescript-graphql with-typescript-graphql-app
```

Deploy it to the cloud with [Vercel](https://vercel.com/new?utm_source=github&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=next-example) ([Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/deployment)).
